# Why we sleep

We certainly know that a lack of sleep will actually **prevent** your brain from being able to initialy make new memories, so it's almost as though without slep the memory inbox of the brain shuts down and you can't **commit** new experiences to memory. So those new incoming informational emails are just bounced, and you end up feeling as though you're **amnesiac**. You can't essentially make and create those new memories.

We also know that a lack of sleep will lead to increased development of a toxic protein in the brain that is called beta-amyloid and that is associated with Alzhemier's disease because it is during deep sleep at night when a **sewage** system within the brain actually kicks into high gear and it starts to wash away this toxic protein, beta-amyloid. So if you're not getting enough sleep each and every night, more of that Alzheimer's-related protein will build up. The more protein that builds up, the greater your risk of going on to develop dementia in later life.

What are the effects of sleep deprivation on the body? Well, there are many different effects. Firstly, we know that sleep deprivation affects the **reproductive system**. We know that men who are sleeping just five to six hours a night have a level of testosterone which is that of someone ten years their senior. So a lack of sleep will age you by almost a decade in terms of that aspect of **virility** and wellness.

## Explain 

Please explain the bold vocab in the passsages above (commit, amnesiac, sewage, reproductive system, virility) in the given context.

- commit (v): cam kết (và bạn không thể cam kết đưa những kinh nghiệm mới tới não bộ)
- amnesiac (n): mất trí nhớ (và cuối cùng bạn cảm thấy như rằng bạn bị mất trí nhớ vậy)
- sewage (n): bài tiết nước (bởi vì khi bạn ngủ sâu vào ban đêm, hệ thống bài tiết nước trong não bộ sẽ hoạt động như một bánh xe răng và nó bắt đầu làm sạch hết những protein độc hại...)
- reproductive system (n): hệ thống sinh sản (trước tiên, như bạn đã biết việc mất ngủ sẽ ảnh hưởng đến hệ thống sinh sản)
- virility (n): sự mạnh mẽ của người đàn ông - chất lượng tinh binh (Vì thế việc thiếu ngủ sẽ làm đi già gần cả 10 tuổi cả về khía cạnh sức khoẻ lẫn chất lượng tinh binh)

## Summary

Please summarize each passage in 1-2 sentences

    The lack of sleep prevents your brain makes you can't be able to remember anything for a time.

    The slack of sleep will lead to increased development of a toxic protein. Especially old people maybe with Alzheimer's disease.

    The lack of sleep deprivation has many different effects on the body. Such as reproductive system, higher testosterone, the ability of man, and wellness.

## Submiting

Please provide who will work on which vocab and the summary of the whole 3 passsages (in 1-2 sentences)

